>> Rodriguez: So the main point is that
we have this container element, so
we have our dev.
And what we generally wanna do is use
that to provide most of the styling for
the content in that dev.
So we're gonna open up the style
attribute and we'll set things like,
we can set the color.
I like using high contrast also,
see it's black,
it's default anyways,
but we can set it there.
And then things like font family, font
size, so we'll add, make this sans-serif,
I expect some of you will have questions
while using web fonts in email,
which we can definitely dig into.
There's definitely a few
gotchas about doing it, but
we'll make sure our text is big enough so
people can read it.
>> Rodriguez: Good thing is to keep in
mind that we wanna have a generous line
height, just so people can read
things a little bit more clearly.
We don't want it to get too big and
make it hard to read, but
especially in email when so
much relies on links,
you're trying to get people out of your
email and take some sort of other action.
If you have those text links and
a block of copy,
you can create those link clusters and
really closely packed links and
people will try to tap and
they'll go where they don't wanna go.
So line height's probably the best way to
make sure you have enough breathing space
for all those links and
those blocks of copy.
So here we don't want to
use again pixel units and
set of relative units like just that
1.4 use ems or something like that.
Just cuz a lot of email clients don't
they haven't been updated a long time, so
they might not recognize or
know how to render those relative units.
So for the most part, all of our units and
our emails are gonna be pixel sizing,
which is a little bit weird.
There's formulas for
kind of converting those relative till
you fixed units if you need them by.
I usually just give it plenty of space
maybe double whatever that pixel size
happens to be or a little less than that.
When you start doing things like headings
like longer lines of heading then
you might want to shrink
that down a little bit so
that the text sits a little bit closer and
it's easier to read.
Yeah, so let's look at that and
see, let's look like here.
So better,
we don't have that outdated like,
Times New Roman style,
Serif that nobody likes,
pretty much outside of
print books these days.
Yeah, nothing too fancy,
we can see that we haven't really
done anything to the heading here.
So we get this default styling,
which is just bold,
a little bit bigger than our normal
tech size, but we can update that too.
So we have our default universal styles
as display whole set to any of that
content in there.
When it comes to black level elements,
the main thing we're gonna be doing is
overriding any of those margins or
the padding on those elements.
So, for headings especially we wanna
make sure that we control those margins,
we don't leave it to the browser or
the email client to do that.
So I usually zero this out
to start out with, and
then introduce more padding or
more margins as needed.
The same thing applies for paragraphs so
we can add a style in there,
I add this margin set up 0 for now, and
this becomes especially important
as we start to add up more copies.
So let's copy that and
another paragraph down here,
and you can see we don't really
have any space between that.
So that's where we start
using those inline
styles to add that additional space,
but we wanna control that.
We don't wanna leave it up to the browser
or the email client to set that for us.
So for the heading, let's add a little
bit of space on the top and bottom.
Let's say, since having all
maybe add 40 pixels and 0,
you can use shorthand, most email
clients will respect that shorthand.
You don't have to declare margin top,
margin bottom, margin left, margin right.
Unless you want different settings for
those elements or for that spacing.
So plenty of space around the heading and
then for
the most part, for
paragraphs as I start training them,
I just add the margin to the bottom
of that paragraph instead of the top.
It'll just help keep things nice and
consistent as we start
adding more content in here.
So we can do, it goes top right,
bottom, left for
that shorthand property for margin.
So we can do 0 for top, 0 for right, but
maybe add 20 pixels on the bottom,
and then 0 for the left.
So when I just copy that style down here,
then we have a little bit of space,
we have plenty of line height
maybe even a little bit too much.
We're gonna take that down some,
so like 28.
>> Rodriguez: That's a little bit better,
a little bit more comfortable.
Obviously, we aren't doing
anything structural to the email,
but we can see how that might
work with our container div here.
So, all these styles control
the text in our email,
but if we want to start structuring
things a little bit more,
we can get started by using
the max width property.
This doesn't we're again,
not using tables yet,
we'll see how that comes into
play a little bit later on.
But this is kinda part of the basis of the
hybrid coding approach which will look at,
but max width is super helpful.
We can make a something like 600 pixels,
that'll constrain it, and
we can see that our image is still blowing
out of that container because it's so
large, we're using this retina image.
But we'll look at how to constrain that
when we need to start digging more into
images themselves.
Similar on the web right now we're gonna
use margins to center that content.
So we'll do the old 0 auto trick, and
then we're centering that content,
which is cool.
One thing I wanna do is resize this logo,
so
if that was my logo, it'd be gigantic and
I don't want that to happen.
So I'm gonna had a width
attribute here and
set it to say, let's say 60 pixels.
See what that was, so that's a little
bit better, I wanna style that a little
bit too on the add a border radius
>> Rodriguez: To make it circular so
I'll just set it to whatever that
width happens to be, that's cool.
So one thing to note, though,
is that as you start using a little
bit more advanced CSS,
like things that were introduced in CSS 3.
Things like border radius, this isn't
supported across all email clients.
And when we start getting into
things like centering these images,
that doesn't work across clients as well.
So let's center, let's again
let's say call us display black,
>> Rodriguez: Margin 0 auto.
>> Rodriguez: So
we're centering that in the email,
I think I'm going to center
the heading as well.
So again, we can receives text
align center on our hr heading tag.
That's not something we wanna set at
this universal kinda container level,
because we don't want all this
copy down here to be centered.
That definitely has very big
accessibility implications,
which we'll look at in a minute, but
we'll just set that on the heading itself.
So we have that centered
heading looks nice,
we have the body of the email down here.
If we want to style that footer text
a little bit differently a common
practice is to make it a little
bit smaller than the main copy.
And then make it lighter colored, so
instead of black we could make it gray.
And then maybe make it 14 or 16 pixels,
decrease the line height
a little bit to match.
>> Rodriguez: And you can see that
we have this footer copy down here,
that's a little bit different.
We can add in here a little bit
more spacing to our email or
to this footer section, so
we'll use margin again.
Let's say, 60 pixels up top,
and a little space below, and
then down below too we can add a little
bit extra space on the bottom there.
>> Rodriguez: So now we have a little
bit of spacing between our footer and
the rest of our content
which will help separate it.
But pretty basic stuff,
we're just using those tried and
true well tested CSS properties.
We're adding a little bit of structure
using this max width and the margin,
we don't need that since that's
contained in this overarching div, and
just making things look
a little bit nicer.
And so let's see what something like this
actually looks like when we look at it in
real clients.
So this is again using
that limits extension,
which will load depending on
the speed of the Internet here.
Load our email and
all these different email clients,
right now I'm just testing
in 35 popular clients.
Right now we have 87 available,
it's usually closer to 100 but
sometimes some of the machines are down or
we have issues with some of
the clients who will pull them down.
So you can see a couple of things here for
things like Apple mail
works there which has like really
good support for HTML and CSS.
You can see that all of this works,
our images are still blowing out here
we'll make that a responsive in a minute.
By all this copy works our images has that
border radius applied and it is centered.
But when we get into things like Outlook,
you can see that a lot
of that does not work.
The border radius doesn't work,
centering that image by making it block
level and using margins doesn't work.
And then that max with doesn't work,
which is a huge issue for
us because we do have a lot of
people still using Outlook clients.
So that's where things like tables or
hybrid coding will come into place to
provide better,
more robust structure for those emails.
And just kind of flip through and
see how it renders again,
the Outlooks are not pretty at all.
But when we get into things like Outlook
2019, which happens beyond Mac that
uses WebKit again as a rendering engine,
which is awesome it works really well.
The Apple models are awesome, old versions
of Android are actually really good,
newer versions, not so much.
The Gmail app depending on how
you're using it tends to be
a pretty solid rendering engine.
Surprisingly there's a lot of different
versions of Gmail out in the wild.
So there's a great article by
a guy named Remy Parmentier,
who is a French email developer.
And he mapped out all
the different versions of Gmails.
So there's not just like consumer Gmail
but there's G Suite, there's Google Apps,
there's whether or not you're
using it in the app or via iMAP,
it does different things to your code.
So it's definitely something to dig a
little bit into and try to understand, but
for the most part the Gmail
app is pretty solid.
You get into the iMAP rendering,
sometimes you run into some issues there,
the Outlooks are good.
Samsung as its entire own world has a lot
of different problems with the e-mail
rendering so it's usually pretty tricky to
get things working well in Samsung mail.
But we'll look at using tables and
hybrid coding to account for
some of those problems.
Gmail Outlook, but
it's nice you can go through and
see exactly how your email renders
across these different email clients.
So, a nice trick to account for
things like for
centering in Outlook is to
rely on a good old tag that
nobody uses anymore which is center.
So this is completely deprecating, but
we can use it in the context of
email to make that work and outlook.
So if we say that we
can rerun the messier,
>> Rodriguez: Hopefully Outlook pop
up soon.
>> Rodriguez: So
you can see we do get that centering, so
depending on what you need to do,
that's really common for logos,
different images like icons and
stuff like that.
You can use that dedicated HTML, it's
pretty commonplace in email development
to make Outlook handle some of
our styling a little bit better.
>> Speaker 2: We did
have a question in chat.
>> Rodriguez: Sure.
>> Speaker 2: What about borders,
should it be used or
not on block level elements?
>> Rodriguez: So borders you totally
can use it's pretty reliable, so
the way you do that is just using that.
Border shorthand so say, width UR,
what type of border that is whether
it's solid dash dotted, whatever and
then the color of the border.
Padding again is pretty well supported
across block level elements.
So those are used together a lot
of times to create like buttons or
like a grid type element or like a card
type element you'll have that border
around there with padding
around that element.
So yeah, go for border works well,
and usually combine that with padding
to get cool effects like
buttons which we'll look at.